the conclusion that I've come to is that
we've all been looking at this Jordan
Peterson phenomenon upside down and
backwards the situation is not that he's
a philosopher who just happened to have
a weight loss diet that he's promoting
okay the guy is an international
sensation because he's skinny because
millions of people around the world are
really psychologically messed up about
diet and weight loss there were
middle-aged people who look at him and
want to be like him and want to lose
weight and it was precisely the weight
loss that was his charisma that was his
magnetism
it never was his philosophy because let
me tell you something I did a book
review video on his terrible book to
call his writing [ __ ] would be an
insult to honest cow manure and the
Internet is crowded with these
untalented people like this woman I'm
showing you on screen she can't speak
well she has nothing to say
there's nothing interesting about her
content she has no message she doesn't
have a pretty face she doesn't have an
attractive figure the only thing she has
going for her is that she's skinny is
that she's thin and that drives millions
of views on YouTube it drives millions
of people on Instagram all right
people have this desire this yearning to
receive encouragement from skinny people
whom they otherwise have something in
common with whom they find relatable
there are middle-aged men and women who
are looking at Jordan Peterson and
thinking oh I could look like that
that's exactly what they're drawn to
it's that they want to be like Jordan
Peterson in the shallowest sense
imaginable just because he's skinny well
then then I lost seven pounds the next
month then I lost seven pounds the next
month I lost seven pounds every month
for seven months like I'd throw away all
my clothes I went back to the same
weight that I was when I was 20
six and my psoriasis disappeared and I
had floaters in my right eye and they
cleared up people tend to imagine that
compulsive liars are social outcasts and
nothing could be further from the truth
a typical compulsive liar like jordan
peterson gathers a great deal of
positive attention around himself or
herself because what people tend to hate
and fear are carefully contrived lies
what they tend to despise are people who
intentionally try to manipulate them
people who lie to them with a very clear
sense of purpose and the compulsive
nature of compulsive lying is very much
what you just heard
Jordan Peterson doing he's sitting there
he wants attention he wants approval he
wants to be loved he just throws off one
lie after another he doesn't think about
what he's saying no and I had floaters
in my right eye and they cleared up
there are some underlying problems of
character here he has a PhD in the
sciences yet he utterly lacks scientific
attitudes he sounds like someone who has
never seen the Wikipedia article on what
it means to quote/unquote have floaters
in your eyes he seems like someone who
just has none of the skepticism
necessary in questioning whether or not
it is possible for a 100% meat diet to
cure this condition of the eyes it is
completely impossible to cure floaters
in your eyes by eating a 100% meat diet
let's go further it is impossible to
cure having floaters in your eyes by
eating a vegan diet it is impossible to
cure the condition known as having
floaters in your eyes with any diet
whatsoever
whether it be starving yourself or
whether it be eating 5,000 calories
there is no diet possible on this earth
that can cure or improve the condition
known as having floaters in your eyes
jordan peterson is not the first person
to lie about this on the internet okay
but i think we all know even just
listening to that short clip that it's
not the case that peterson did a bunch
of research on this and he happened to
read really biased papers or studies you
can tell he is just saying anything to
try to captivate the crowd he is not in
a contrived and intentional way lying he
is just lying all the time because he is
a habitual liar he is lying out of
neediness not out of some kind of
sincere scientific conviction you know
what the internet is full of people
looking for answers and a health
condition like having floaters in your
eyes is a great example where people
feel desperate for some kind of
reassurance people feel desperate for
some kind of positive suggestion they
feel desperate for guidance they look
for articles like this one that seem to
promise them away that they can solve
this problem themselves Oh
what can I do to improve this condition
through my diet now credit to the people
that live strong calm although this
sounds like it's gonna be another
dishonest [ __ ] article what it
actually does is inform you guess what
as you get older the quality of the guck
in the core of your eyeball degrades and
that's why you've got floaters and
there's absolutely nothing you can do
about it okay if you live to be a
hundred years old it's completely
inevitable that the quality of your
eyesight will degrade and that you will
experience this condition
floaters it is a daily reminder of the
impermanence of human life on this earth
you drink water you breathe air
you eat food all of these things are
gonna decompose and biodegrade and the
water in your veins will return to the
rain cycle and the air in your lungs
will return to the atmosphere okay
everything born must one day die for no
it may seem there is nothing you can do
to improve the condition known as
floaters yeah the LIVESTRONG article
here ends up by saying well you know
maybe you can avoid coffee and try to
relax and try to avoid you know blood
vessel constriction and notice there at
the end of the highlighted portion of
text evidence is anecdotal guess what
guys there is absolutely nothing you can
do in your diet to improve the
inevitable process of the vitreous
liquid in the core of your eyeball
decomposing as you get older if you quit
coffee and it makes you feel better
about it I'm happy for you if you drink
twice as much coffee and it makes you
feel better about it I'm happy for you
but this is not a medical problem you
can solve through diet it is definitely
not a medical problem you can solve
through eating the world's unhealthiest
diet which happens to be Jordan
Peterson's diet well then then I lost
seven pounds the next month then I lost
seven pounds the next month I lost seven
pounds every month for seven months like
I'd throw away all my clothes I think
there is a subtle but important change
that comes about you sort of admit to
yourself look the problem with Jordan
Peterson isn't that he's some kind of
scientist who just happens to do this
diet and weight loss stuff you know the
probability or Demeter's isn't that he's
some kind of respectable philosopher and
academic it's not that he's some kind of
respectable right-wing commentator on
Canadian politics it's not that he's a
respectable religious leader even on the
conservative right no no no no the
problem with Jordan Peterson is not that
he's any of these respectable things and
just happens to be a drug addict you
have to evaluate him with an awareness
that he is first and foremost a drug
addicted weight-loss guru who lost the
weight because he was addicted to
benzodiazepines because he was addicted
to popping pills he lost the weight and
he attributed this weight loss just like
so many diet gurus before to the diet
that he and his daughter will sell you
the 100% meat carnivore diet and you
know he had all these other
psychological and emotional problems and
transformations all of his emotional
extremities shall we say his reports of
you know extreme changes in sleep you
know he sometimes doesn't sleep for
several days in a row he's a times
claims his sleep problems been
miraculously cured the crazy mood swings
that you see even on camera the breaking
down weeping of emails this is all the
behavior of someone who is addicted to
and dependent on a number of
mind-altering drugs all of which at this
point in 2020 he has already admitted to
you can't sue me Jordan I'm quoting you
you have listed the mind-altering drugs
you've been taking for years and all we
have to do in the public is admit to
ourselves that your weight loss your
social influence your popularity has
been promoting the so-called miraculous
emotional intellectual and physical
effects of your own drug addiction as if
those were the consequence of your diet
and your philosophy and it never was a
consequence of either one you're just
another skinny drug addict trying to
sell a new
philosophy bound up in a paperback book
and a [ __ ] diet that will literally
kill people if they're stupid enough to
follow it to the letter
[Music]